NAME
       opj_decompress - This program reads in a jpeg2000 image and converts it
       to another image type. It is part of the OpenJPEG library.

       Valid input image extensions are .j2k, .jp2, .j2c, .jpt

       Valid output image extensions are .bmp, .pgm, .pgx, .png, .pnm, .ppm,
       .raw, .tga, .tif . For PNG resp. TIF it needs libpng resp. libtiff .

SYNOPSIS
       opj_decompress -i infile.j2k -o outfile.png

       opj_decompress -ImgDir images/ -OutFor bmp

       opj_decompress -h Print help message and exit

       See JPWL OPTIONS for special options

OPTIONS
       -i name
              (jpeg2000 input file name)

       -l n   n is the maximum number of quality layers to decode. See LAYERS
              below)

       -o name
              (output file name with extension)

       -r n   (n is the highest resolution level to be discarded. See
              REDUCTION below)

       -x name
              (use name as index file and fill it)

       -ImgDir directory_name
              (directory containing input files)

       -OutFor ext
              (extension for output files)

JPIP OPTIONS
       Options usable only if the library has been compiled with BUILD_JPIP

       -jpip  Embed index table box into the output JP2 file (compulsory for
              JPIP)

       -TP R  Partition a tile into tile parts of different resolution levels
              (compulsory for JPT-stream)

JPWL OPTIONS
       Options usable only if the library has been compiled with BUILD_JPWL

       -W c[=Nc] (Nc is the number of expected components in the codestream;
       default:3)

       -W t[=Nt] (Nt is the maximum number of tiles in the codestream;
       default:8192)

       -W c[=Nc], t[=Nt] (same as above)

REDUCTION
       Set the number of highest resolution levels to be discarded.  The image
       resolution is effectively divided by 2 to the power of the number of
       discarded levels. The reduce factor is limited by the smallest total
       number of decomposition levels among tiles.

TILES
       Set the maximum number of quality layers to decode. If there are less
       quality layers than the specified number, all the quality layers are
       decoded.

AUTHORS
       Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Universite catholique de Louvain (UCL),
       Belgium
       Copyright (c) 2002-2014, Professor Benoit Macq
       Copyright (c) 2001-2003, David Janssens
       Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Yannick Verschueren
       Copyright (c) 2003-2007, Francois-Olivier Devaux and Antonin Descampe
       Copyright (c) 2005, Herve Drolon, FreeImage Team
       Copyright (c) 2006-2007, Parvatha Elangovan

SEE ALSO
       opj_compress(1) opj_dump(1)
