NAME
       out123 - send raw PCM audio or a waveform pattern to an output device

SYNOPSIS
       cat audio.raw | out123 [ - ] [ options  ]

       out123 [ options ] filename [ filename ... ]

       out123 --wave-freq freq1[,freq2,...] [ options ]

       out123 --source geiger [ options ]


DESCRIPTION
       out123 reads raw PCM data (in host byte order) from standard input and
       plays it on the audio device specified by given options.
       Alternatively, it can generate periodic or random signals for playback
       itself.

OPTIONS
       out123 options may be either the traditional POSIX one letter options,
       or the GNU style long options.  POSIX style options start with a single
       '-', while GNU long options start with '--'.  Option arguments (if
       needed) follow separated by whitespace (not '=').  Note that some
       options can be absent from your installation when disabled in the build
       process.

       --name name
              Set the name of this instance, possibly used in various places.
              This sets the client name for JACK output.

       -o module, --output module
              Select audio output module. You can provide a comma-separated
              list to use the first one that works.  Also see -a.

       --list-modules
              List the available modules.

       --list-devices
              List the available output devices for given output module. If
              there is no functionality to list devices in the chosen module,
              an error will be printed and out123 will exit with a non-zero
              code.

       -a dev, --audiodevice dev
              Specify the audio device to use.  The default as well as the
              possible values depend on the active output. For the JACK
              output, a comma-separated list of ports to connect to (for each
              channel) can be specified.

       -s, --stdout
              The audio samples are written to standard output, instead of
              playing them through the audio device.  The output format is the
              same as the input ... so in this mode, out123 acts similar the
              standard tool  cat, possibly with some conversions involved.
              This shortcut is equivalent to '-o raw -a -'.

       -S, --STDOUT
              This variant additionally writes the data to stdout, while still
              playing it on the output device. So it is more like some flavour
              of tee than a cat.

       -O file, --outfile
              Write raw output into a file (instead of simply redirecting
              standard output to a file with the shell).  This shortcut is
              equivalent to '-o raw -a file'.

       -w file, --wav
              Write output as WAV file file , or standard output if - is or
              the empty string used as file name. You can also use --au and
              --cdr for AU and CDR format, respectively. Note that WAV/AU
              writing to non-seekable files or redirected stdout needs some
              thought. The header is written with the first actual data. The
              result of decoding nothing to WAV/AU is a file consisting just
              of the header when it is seekable and really nothing when not
              (not even a header). Correctly writing data with prophetic
              headers to stdout is no easy business.  This shortcut is
              equivalent to '-o wav -a file'.

       --au file
              Write to file in SUN audio format.  If - or the empty string is
              used as the filename, the AU file is written to stdout. See
              paragraph about WAV writing for header fun with non-seekable
              streams.  This shortcut is equivalent to '-o au -a file'.

       --cdr file
              Write to file as a CDR (CD-ROM audio, more correctly CDDA for
              Compact Disc Digital Audio).  If - is or the empty string used
              as the filename, the CDR file is written to stdout.  This
              shortcut is equivalent to '-o cdr -a file'.

       -r rate, --rate rate
              Set sample rate in Hz (default: 44100). If this does not match
              the actual input sampling rate, you get changed pitch. Might be
              intentional;-)

       -R rate, --inputrate rate
              Set input sample rate to a different value. This triggers
              resampling if the output rate is indeed different. See
              --resample.

       --speed factor
              Speed up/down playback by that factor using resampling. See
              --resample.

       --resample method
              This chooses the method for resampling between differing
              sampling rates or to apply a change in tempo. You can choose
              between two variants of the syn123 resampler: fine (the default)
              and dirty. The fine one features 108 dB dynamic range and at
              worst-case 84% bandwidth. The dirty one uses a bit less CPU time
              (not that much, though) by reducing the dynamic range to 72 dB
              with worst-case bandwidth of 85%. The exact properties vary with
              the sampling rate ratio, as there is interpolation of filter
              coefficients involved.

       -c count, --channels count
              Set channel count to given value.

       -C count, --inputch count
              Set input channel count to a differnt value than for output.
              This probably means you want some remixing. Also see --mix.

       -e enc, --encoding enc
              Choose output sample encoding. Possible values look like f32
              (32-bit floating point), s32 (32-bit signed integer), u32
              (32-bit unsigned integer) and the variants with different
              numbers of bits (s24, u24, s16, u16, s8, u8) and also special
              variants like ulaw and alaw 8-bit.  See the output of out123's
              longhelp for actually available encodings.  Default is s16.

       --endian choice
              Select output endianess (byte order). Choice is big, little, or
              native, which is the default.  The processing can only work in
              native mode, so you need to specify input or output byte order
              if that does not match your machine. This also sets the input
              endianess if that is not set separately. See also --inputend and
              --byteswap.

       -E enc, --inputenc enc
              Specify input encoding different from output encoding for
              conversion.

       --inputend choice
              Select input endianess (byte order). By default it is the same
              as output byte order.  See --endian.

       --byteswap
              A switch to trigger swapping of byte order just before output,
              after any other transformations.  This works on top of any
              endianess you specify with

       -m, --mono
              Set for single-channel audio (default is two channels, stereo).

       --stereo
              Select stereo output (2 channels, default).

       --list-encodings
              List known encoding short and long names to standard output.

       --mix matrix
              Specify a mixing matrix between input and output channels as
              linear factors, comma separated list for the input channel
              factors for output channel 1, then output channel 2, and so
              forth.  The default is a unit matrix if channel counts match, so
              for 3 channels the equivalent of both channels with halved
              amplitude, so '--mix 0.5,0.5'. For splitting mono to stereo, it
              is '--mix 1,1' top keep the symmetry.

       --filter coeff
              Apply digital filter(s) before pre-amplification (see --preamp)
              with the coefficient list coeff as
                                  b_0,...,b_N,a_0,...,a_N
              where a_0=1 is mandatory and perhaps helps orientation a bit.
              Multiple filters are separated by ':'.

       -P dbvalue --preamp dbvalue
              Enable a pre-amplification stage that amplifies the signal with
              the given value in dB before output.

       --offset value
              Apply a PCM offset (floating point value scaled in [-1:1] in the
              pre-amplification stage.  Normally, you would do that to correct
              a known DC offset in a recording.

       --clip mode
              Select clipping mode: 'soft' or 'hard' for forced clipping also
              for floating point output, 'implicit' (default) for implied hard
              clipping during conversion where necessary.

       --dither
              Enable dithering for conversions to integer. If you insist.
              This is just some un-spectacular TPDF dither. For some people,
              that is not fancy enough.  Most people cannot be bothered that
              way or the other.

       --test-format
              Check if given format is supported by given driver and device
              (in command line before encountering this), silently returning 0
              as exit value if it is the case.

       --test-encodings
              Print out the short names of encodings supported with the
              current setup.

       --query-format
              If the selected driver and device communicate some default
              accepted format, print out a command line fragment for out123
              setting that format, always in that order: --rate <r> --channels
              <c> --encoding <e>

       -o h, --headphones
              Direct audio output to the headphone connector (some hardware
              only; AIX, HP, SUN).

       -o s, --speaker
              Direct audio output to the speaker  (some hardware only; AIX,
              HP, SUN).

       -o l, --lineout
              Direct audio output to the line-out connector (some hardware
              only; AIX, HP, SUN).

       -b size, --buffer size
              Use an audio output buffer of size Kbytes.  This is useful to
              bypass short periods of heavy system activity, which would
              normally cause the audio output to be interrupted.  You should
              specify a buffer size of at least 1024 (i.e. 1 Mb, which equals
              about 6 seconds of usual audio data) or more; less than about
              300 does not make much sense.  The default is 0, which turns
              buffering off.

       --preload fraction
              Wait for the buffer to be filled to fraction before starting
              playback (fraction between 0 and 1). You can tune this
              prebuffering to either get sound faster to your ears or safer
              uninterrupted web radio.  Default is 0.2 (changed from 1 since
              version 1.23).

       --devbuffer seconds
              Set device buffer in seconds; <= 0 means default value. This is
              the small buffer between the application and the audio backend,
              possibly directly related to hardware buffers.

       --timelimit samples
              Set playback time limit in PCM samples if set to a value greater
              than zero.  out123 will stop reading from stdin or playing from
              the generated wave table after reaching that number of samples.

       --seconds seconds
              Set time limit in seconds instead.

       --source name
              Choose the signal source: 'file' (default) for playback of the
              given file(s) on the command line or standard input if there are
              none, or one of the generators 'wave' (see --wave-freq), geiger
              (see --geiger-activity), or just 'white' for some white noise.

       --wave-freq frequencies
              Set wave generator frequency or list of those with comma
              separation for enabling a generated test signal instead of
              standard input. Empty values repeat the previous one.

       --wave-pat patterns
              Set the waveform patterns of the generated waves as comma-
              separated list.  Choices include sine, square, triangle,
              sawtooth, gauss, pulse, and shot.  Empty values repeat the
              previous one.

       --wave-phase phases
              Set waveform phase shift(s) as comma-separated list, negative
              values inverting the pattern in time and empty value repeating
              the previous. There is also --wave-direction overriding the
              negative bit.

       --wave-direction
              Set wave direction explicitly (the sign counts).

       --wave-sweep frequency
              Sweep a generated wave to the given frequency, from first one
              specified for --wave-freq, using the first wave pattern and
              direction, too.

       --sweep-time seconds
              Set frequency sweep duration in seconds if > 0. This defaults to
              the configured time limit if set, otherwise one second, as
              endless sweeps are not sensible.

       --sweep-count count
              Set timelimit to exactly produce that many (smooth) sweeps

       --sweep-type type
              Set sweep type: lin(ear) for linear, qua(d) (default) for
              quadratic, or exp(onential) for an exponential change of
              frequency with time.

       --sweep-hard
              Disable post-sweep smoothing for periodicity.

       --genbuffer bytes
              Set the buffer size (limit) for signal generators, if > 0
              (default), this enforces a periodic buffer also for non-periodic
              signals, benefit: less runtime CPU overhead, as everything is
              precomputed as enforced periodic signal.

       --wave-limit samples
              This is an alias for --genbuffer.

       --pink-rows number
              Activate pink noise source and choose rows for the algorithm (<1
              chooses default).  The generator follows code provided by Phil
              Burk (http://softsynth.com) and uses the Gardner method.

       --geiger-activity number
              This configures the simulation of a Geiger-Mueller counter as
              source, with the given numer as average events per second. Play
              with it. It's fun!

       -t, --test
              Test mode.  The audio stream is read, but no output occurs.

       -v, --verbose
              Increase the verbosity level.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet.  Suppress diagnostic messages.

       --aggressive
              Tries to get higher priority

       -T, --realtime
              Tries to gain realtime priority.  This option usually requires
              root privileges to have any effect.

       -?, --help
              Shows short usage instructions.

       --longhelp
              Shows long usage instructions.

       --version
              Print the version string.

AUTHORS
       Maintainer:
              Thomas Orgis <maintainer@mpg123.org>, <thomas@orgis.org>

       Creator (ancestry of code inside mpg123):
              Michael Hipp

       Uses code or ideas from various people, see the AUTHORS file
       accompanying the source code.

LICENSE
       out123 is licensed under the GNU Lesser/Library General Public License,
       LGPL, version 2.1 .

WEBSITE
       http://www.mpg123.org
       http://sourceforge.net/projects/mpg123
