NAME
       ahost - print the A or AAAA record associated with a hostname or IP
       address

SYNOPSIS
       ahost [OPTION]... HOST...

DESCRIPTION
       Look up the DNS A or AAAA record associated with HOST (a hostname or an
       IP address).

       This utility comes with the c-ares asynchronous resolver library.

OPTIONS
       -d     Print some extra debugging output.

       -h, --help
              Display this help and exit.

       -t type
              If type is "a", print the A record (default).  If type is
              "aaaa", print the AAAA record.  If type is "u", look for either
              AAAA or A record (in that order).

       -s domain
              Specify the domain to search instead of using the default values
              from
              /etc/resolv.conf. This option only has an effect on platforms
              that use
              /etc/resolv.conf for DNS configuration; it has no effect on
              other platforms (such as Win32 or Android).

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to the c-ares mailing list:
       https://lists.haxx.se/listinfo/c-ares

SEE ALSO
       acountry(1), adig(1).

COPYRIGHT
       This utility is based on code/ideas contained in sofware written by
       Greg Hudson (ares) carrying the following notice:
       Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
       Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
       documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
       provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
       both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
       supporting documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in
       advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
       without specific, written prior permission. M.I.T. makes no
       representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.
       It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
       No further copyright claims are being made by the author(s) of this
       utility.
