NAME
       jbig2dec - File format converter specialized in JBIG2 decoding


SYNOPSIS
       jbig2dec [options] file.jbig2
       jbig2dec [options] global-stream page-stream


DESCRIPTION
       The jbig2dec command converts JBIG2 files to png or pbm files.

       When passed a single file argument it is interpreted as a JBIG2 file
       stream, with either sequential or random-access organization.

       When passed two stream arguments, they are interpreted as the global
       and page-specific portions of an embedded organization, as used in PDF.
       If a particular page references no global segment stream, /dev/null can
       be passed for the global-stream argument to request the embedded
       parser.


OPTIONS
       The options are as follows:

       -e, --embedded
              Expect embedded bit stream without file header.

       -o file, --output file
              Store the decoded output in file.  Defaults to the input with a
              different extension.  Set to - for standard output.

       -t type, --format type
              Force a particular output file format. Supported are png and
              pbm.

       -d, --dump
              Print the structure of the JBIG2 file rather than explicitly
              decoding it.

       -m, --hash
              Print a hash of the decoded document.

       -q, --quiet
              Suppress warnings and other diagnostic output.

       -v, --verbose
              Report additional information about the decoding process.  Pass
              just -v for information about the file as it's being decoded.
              This is the same as --verbose=2.  Pass --verbose=3 or higher for
              debugging information.

       -V, --version
              Show program version information.

       -h, --help
              Show usage summary.


REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs at https://bugs.ghostscript.com

       Contact the developers at the IRC channel #ghostscript at freenode.net
       or via the mailing list <gs-devel@ghostscript.com>.


AUTHOR
       This manpage was initially written by Sebastian Rasmussen
       <sebras@gmail.com> for jbig2dec and the Debian Project.
