NAME
     stapler – Attach and validate tickets for notarized executables

SYNOPSIS
     stapler staple [-q] [-v] path
     stapler validate [-q] [-v] path

DESCRIPTION
     The stapler utility attaches tickets for notarized executables to app
     bundles, disk images, and packages.

     Developer ID requires apps to be notarized before distribution. A ticket
     contains a list of the code signatures for executables within a supported
     file format. The stapler utility downloads and attaches (staples) a
     ticket to these files, enabling Gatekeeper to verify that executables
     they contain have been properly notarized.

     Stapling is performed automatically by Xcode as part of the Developer ID
     distribution workflow for notarized apps. The stapler utility must be
     applied separately to a supported file format that was built or packaged
     with command-line tools, before distributing it. This enables Gatekeeper
     to verify the ticket offline.

     Stapling does not invalidate the code signature and must be run after an
     executable or archive has been code-signed and notarized with Developer
     ID. Code-signing a supported file format invalidates any stapled tickets,
     so stapler staple must be run again if this occurs.

     stapler requires internet access to retrieve tickets when stapling or
     validating.

SUPPORTED FILE FORMATS
     stapler works only with UDIF disk images, signed "flat" installer
     packages, and certain code-signed executable bundles such as ".app".
     Passing an unsigned "flat" installer package or an unsigned executable
     bundle in path to stapler is considered an error.

OPTIONS
     The options are as follows:

     staple   Retrieves a ticket and attaches it to the supported file format
              at path. The executable must have completed the notarization
              process.

     validate
              Validates a stapled ticket. This includes verifying the contents
              and comparing it to the latest ticket retrieved from the
              ticketing service.

     -q, --quiet
              When validating or attaching tickets, stapler will only return
              the exit code.  --verbose overrides this option.

     -v, --verbose
              Sets the output of stapler to include additional diagnostic
              output.  Without the verbose option, no output is produced upon
              success.

EXAMPLES
     stapler staple Example.app
              Retrieve and staple a ticket to Xcode.app.

     stapler validate -v SampleInstaller.pkg
              Validate the ticket stapled to a package with verbose output.

DIAGNOSTICS
     stapler returns 0 on successful stapling or validation.  If an error
     occurs, it returns one of the non-zero codes defined in sysexits(3).
     stapler exits upon encountering the first error. It may exit with codes
     other than those listed below in less common scenarios.

     [EX_USAGE]         Options appear malformed or are missing.

     [EX_NOINPUT]       path cannot be found, is not code-signed, or is not of
                        a supported file format, or, if the validate option is
                        passed, the existing ticket is missing or invalid.

     [EX_DATAERR]       The ticket data is invalid.

     [EX_NOPERM]        The ticket has been revoked by the ticketing service.

     [EX_NOHOST]        The path has not been previously notarized or the
                        ticketing service returns an unexpected response.

     [EX_CANTCREAT]     The ticket has been retrieved from the ticketing
                        service and was properly validated but the ticket
                        could not be written out to disk.

SEE ALSO
     codesign(1), spctl(8), syspolicyd(8)

HISTORY
     The stapler command first appeared in macOS 10.14.

BUGS
     stapler can only act on one path per invocation. If multiple paths are
     specified, stapler will only process the last path specified.

     The folder containing path must be writable.

     If an executable bundle contains a symlink at Contents/CodeResources, it
     must be manually deleted before staple will function.
